---
layout: post
title: Why pivot careers and study web development? 
thumbnail-path: "img/stock_casparrubin_codelaptop.jpg"
---

When I was working in Sales and Business Operations for a large multinational company, whether in China, the United Kingdom, Brazil or Poland, on the job learning took place twofold. It was either by acquiring new hard skills on the job (e.g. going from building management reports in Excel to adopting a new CRM system, that was Salesforce to gradually getting really good at it and be able to build sales forecasting reports and other performance management dashboards) or by assimilating soft skills of my direct manager and team members. I believe it was in 2013 when things slowly started changing - it seemed to me that more and more MNCs were undergoing restructurings that accompanied layoffs in more saturated and mature markets and geographies; as well as a pivoting of the companies' strategic priorites to adopt new technologies to stay abreast of competition. With the introduction of Salesforce every step of our lead, marketing and sales process was being tracked and help us get more effective in improving not only forecasting but also showcased where we had a way to go and improve. In addition, senior management townhalls focussed in on terms like innovation, technology evangelists, lean and agile team management and big data. And if you were to read job descriptions that were part of a newly formed business unit there were suddenly a lot more technical skills required - I remember in particular that if you wanted to work in online marketing you suddendly had to know about what Marketing Technology stack to use, what marketing automation was referring to as well as be sufficient in data analytics, as well as HTML, Photoshop and other CRM platforms. In parallel, I came across articles on the web that were speaking of a new trend in Silicon Valley, where experienced software engineers were teaching regular people how to become web developers in a short amount of time because there were simply not enough programmers out there to meet the demand of the job market. I got curious and signed up to Free Code Camp and started playing around with some of the exercises. In October 2015, I decided to take a year long sabbatical to go travel the world and once I came home I was ready to tackle a new challenge. My main decision however was to uplevel my skillset. While I enjoyed working in Sales Operations very much, I now believe that coding is the new literacy, and the soone I become sufficient in speaking 'programming', the better. It's 2017 already and our daily lives have become even more intertwined with technology. If you've by chance come across the videos '' and '', you can see how rapidly we are adapting and embracing technology. In addition, if you ever wanted to make a quick change to your own website, be in charge of its design or have had an idea for your own web application - without programming skills you are sitting on on the sidelines and simply do not get to create. There is a huge difference where the internet was in 2002 to what gadgets are available now in 2017 (like Hololens and other Virtual Reality applications) and I simply decided that I wanted to become a part of the industry that is impacting the world. 
I'm also a big fan of location independence - having mostly worked abroad and having been an expatriate for the last 10 years (almost 7 years on and off in China; Brazil, United Kingdom, Poland, Italy and Switzerland), I love foreign languages and getting to know different cultures. Fortunately, remote work is also on the rise and to me the future of work will consist of agile, small teams consisting of specialists coming together for projects across different disciplines. I strongly believe that over the next 10+ years, every industry and thus every job out there will merge with technology (just look at job automation trends) and without being able to understand, read and communicate with the underlying software you as an employee will simply not be able to add value. All of the 'unicorn' companies that rose to meteoric success over the recent years, whether it was Facebook, Instagram or Snapchat had a technical founder (with the exception of perhaps Salesforce, however even Marc Benioff did work at Oracle and thus close to the intersection of technology and business).

All of the above led me to sign up for the software engineering track at Bloc.io that teaches full stack web development (both front and back end, as well as computer science principles via a remote mentor/student relationship). Why choose private education when there is Free Code Camp you may ask? Find out in the next blog post.

